[Alerting V2][Serverless & 9.5][M2] Add experimental alerting features rules pages (#6523)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/kibana-alerting-experimental/rules/configure-rule-mode.md

| Mode | Behavior |
| --- | --- |
| Signal | Records each matching row as a signal document. No alert episodes, no notifications. |
| Alert | Creates an alert episode for each matching row. Episodes are tracked through lifecycle states, appear on the Alerts UI, and can be routed to notifications by action policies. |

## When to use each rule mode [rule-mode-when-to-use]

Signal mode is the right fit when:

* You are writing a new detection query and want to verify it produces the expected matches before notifying anyone.
* You need to build detection history in `.rule-events` without generating alert noise or triggering notifications.

Signal mode is **not** the right fit when:

* You need to track how long a condition has been active or how it transitions between states. Signal mode does not create episodes or lifecycle state.
* You need notifications when a condition fires. Switch to Alert mode and attach an action policy.

Alert mode is the right fit when:

* The rule is production-ready and each breach should be tracked as a distinct alert episode that opens, can escalate, and closes when the condition clears.

> * Alert episodes from the rule should be available for be triage, acknowledgement, or escalatation.

Author: ```suggestion
* Alert episodes from the rule should be available for be triage, acknowledgment, or escalation.
```
